.TH PG_REPLICATION_ACTIVITY 1 "Juli 2018" "Manual page for pg_replication_activity"
.\"
.\" 29th Juli 2018
.\" Man page author:
.\"    Sebastiaan Mannem <smannem@bol.com> <sebas@mannem.nl>
.SH NAME
.I pg_replication_activity
\- display replication activity on a replicated postgres cluster
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pg_replication_activity
\-h[elp]
.br
.B pg_replication_activity
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pg_replication_activity
connects to all cluster instances of the replicated cluster and display a top-like view of a 
replicated postgres cluster.
.br
It shows information like role, processed wal (MB/s) lag (MB and sec), current LSN, and config
information. pg_replication_activity is an ideal tool to analyze and visualize the operation and/or
problems of a replicated cluster.
.br
Information like:
.br
* How well is a async cluster keeping up (look at wal processing on master and standby)?
.br
* cause of replication lag?
.br
* is there a split brain?
.br
* what instance is most ahead in a split brain situation?
.br
* which instance is master?
.br
* What path is the replication stream following from master to this standby?
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.IR \-h " | " \--help
display a help of all options
.TP
.IR \-c " | " \--connectstring
specify any connectstring to multiple hosts.
.TP
.IR \-r " | " \--role
Switch to this role after connecting.
.br
Usefull if user has no direct permissions, but been granted a role with permissions.
.TP
.IR \-C " | " \--nocolor
output in Black and White
.TP
.IR \-x " | " \--debug
More verbose on error output (only use is during development)
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.I Question marks (?) are displayed
.br
If the output shows question marks (?) it's because you don't have enough permissions to read
all data required to display this info. Maybe adding permissions, or switchong to a role with 
enough permissions (--role) allows for displaying this info.
.PP
.I Monitoring multiple replicated clusters at once
.br
You can connect to instances of multiple replicated clusters at once. Although this can 
technically work, a lot of displayed info is deducted from the total. For example lag is calculated
with 'latest LSN' and 'lastest date' as reference. With multiple replicated clusters this would be
only one master of one replicated cluster. Standby's of other replicated clusters would typically
show a false (and huge lag). pg_replication_activity was never designed to work like this.
.PP
.I Passwords
.br
pg_replication_activity requires access to all instances it displays. Missing instances is dealt
with properly, but for example when local connection requires no password, but remote does, you
might still need to specify a password. And if you use a pgpass file, you need to specify passwords
for all instances of the replicated cluster.
.PP
.I Impact on monitorred cluster
.br
While small, this tool still has a footprint on the replicated cluster instances.
Futhermore, it has a footprint on the host running pg_replication_activity.
Therefore, it has (small, but still) an impact on (replication) performance.
Use entirely at your own risk. Analyse replication issues. Trace it, tune it and fix it. Become a wizard.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.br
Display connection info of a replicated cluster
.br
* running on host1:5432 and host2:5433
.br
* connect as user postgres
.BR file .
.br
\fI% pg_replication_activity \'host=host1,host2 port=5432,5433 user=postgres\'\fR
.PP
.br
Display connection info of a replicated cluster defined as service mycoolpgservice
.br
Note: you should then specify host=host1,host2 and port=port1,port2 in the service config
.BR file .
.br
\fI% pg_replication_activity service=mycoolpgservice\fR
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The following error values are returned:
.TP
0
no errors encountered.
.TP
1
Some error has occurred
.SH "SEE ALSO"
psql(1), top(1), pg_top(1), pg_activity(1), pg_view
.br
.SH NOTES
Please note that you specify connections to all instances of the replicated cluster, like you
specify client_failover in libpq. Specifically by specifying host= and port= Parameter Key Words in
connectstring or service, or by specifying PGHOST and PGPORT environment variablen.
You can specify the same conenctstring for psql (version >=10). The main difference is that
pg_replication_activity uses the config to deduct al hosts and conennt to all of them, where psql
would find the master and only keep that connection open.
.br
pg_replication_activity opens only one connection per cluster instance and keeps it open.
Furthermore pg_replication_activity runs queries with a low footprint, so running
pg_replication_activity is relatively inexpensive.
.SH VERSION
This manual page documents pg_replication_activity version 0.0.1.
.SH AUTHOR
.br
(c) 2018 by Sebastiaan Mannem
.br
<smannem@bol.com\- Bol.com>
.LP
Distribute freely and credit me and Bol.com,
.PP
